This paper is divided into sections to provide a broad overview of the implementation of security risk analysis. It will review the recommended frequency and content of the analysis. Though there are several security and privacy controls, it is crucial to identify which of these controls should the organization assess. This paper also discusses the relevance of having an external organization conduct the necessary assessment. It will focus on the several reasons why a corporation might decide to outsource the risk analysis. This paper will identify the advantages and disadvantages, from a security standpoint and economic standpoint, of having an external assessor. Another focus of this paper is discussing any issues there are to a corporation conducting its assessment. Similar to the reasons for hiring an external assessor, the reasons might be financially motivated or to remove bias in the analysis. The following sections will discuss these points.
Organizations need to pay special attention when determining the techniques for any assessment objective. Selection must be based on which technique is best for each assessment objective. Among factors to consider are time, resource allocation, resources’ available skillsets, risk, as well as economic balance. Organizations should also consider the impact to production systems while selecting a technique. Another aspect to consider if the testing technique will expose sensitive data to unauthorized individuals. Sometimes, its beneficial to conduct the assessment in a test environment by ensuring close similarities between the test and production system. Another factor to consider is the logistics of the assessment – identifying the resources required for the successful completion of the assessment, the location where to conduct the testing, and also the hardware and software tools needed for the testing. Despite all the factors considered, none is more important is the frequency of conducting the assessment. In the ever-changing technology spectrum, if the assessment is not conducted on an appropriate schedule, the systems will be left vulnerable to exploits.
